openfoam-com: init at 2412 (plus 2406) (#329213)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/packages/openfoam-com.section.md

# OpenFOAM (com) {#sec-openfoam-com}

> Unfortunately, OpenFOAM binaries assume you execute them via `bash`, after sourcing `$OPENFOAM_DIR/etc/bashrc`.
> To avoid this, binaries from the derivation are wrapped so that they are executed with these requirements.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is an implementation detail users don't need to care about. Unless there's something users need to do here?

Author: I thought it could be useful to document it for users already familiar with OpenFOAM.

Reviewer: Hm, how would that impact user interaction? I imagine they'd still just run the command, and actually have to do less (i.e. don't have to manually ensure some files are in place somewhere). Maybe it would would help to make explicit in the phrasing that if one is used to openFOAM on traditional Linux distributions, one has to (not) do XYZ?

> Additionaly, most of its binaries are also able to run in parallel via `mpi`.

Reviewer 2: Minor typo

```suggestion
Additionally, most of its binaries are also able to run in parallel via `mpi`.
```

> Additionally, most of its binaries are also able to run in parallel via `mpi`.
> To make invocations easier, each binary is also wrapped to run via `mpi`, such as `simpleFoam-mpi`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most OpenFOAM binaries are also able to run in parallel via `mpi`.
To make invocations easier, each binary has an additional wrapper, such as `simpleFoam-mpi`.
```

## How to compile and use OpenFOAM extensions {#how-to-compile-and-use-openfoam-com-extensions}

The derivation exposes a function to compile extensions:

```nix
fooExt = openfoam.mkExtension {
  name = "foo";
  src = ./test-ext;
};
```

> If your extension is an executable, it can be added to `$PATH` as any other executable.

Reviewer: That's probably more convenient (and predictable, since e.g. Python is a well known example) with a `passthru.withExtensions` helper. Composing extensions in the system environment sounds brittle.

Author: I like your suggestion, I didn't think about it. I'll look into how python's `withExtensions` work in order to replicate such behaviour here.

If, instead, it's a shared object (`.so`) meant to be loaded by other OpenFOAM binaries, it should be added to `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`:

```nix

> LD_LIBRARY_PATH = lib.strings.concatMapStringsSep ":" (drv: "${drv}/lib") [fooExt];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
LD_LIBRARY_PATH = lib.makeLibraryPath [ fooExt ];
```

Author: Thanks! I didn't know that.

> ```

Reviewer: A helper could manage that distinction automatically.

Author: I guess this would go into the `withExtensions` part that you suggested above? Is it ok to add a field in mkExtension to signal bin or .so?
